📖  update release process docs to match current steps (#867)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-azure: docs/releasing.md

# Release Process

## Change milestone 	
 - Change milestone applier so new changes can be applied to the appropriate lease 

>       - Open a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra to change the llowing line https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/nfig/prow/plugins.yaml#L323

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Open a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra to change the following line https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/nfig/prow/plugins.yaml#L323
```

>       - Open a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra to change the following line https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/config/prow/plugins.yaml#L323

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Open a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra to change this [line](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/25db54eb9d52e08c16b3601726d8f154f8741025/config/prow/plugins.yaml#L344)
```

the line number might change in the master branch

- Example PR: https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/16827

## Prepare branch, tag and release-notes	
 - Identify a known good commit on the main branch

>  - Fast forward release branch to selected commit, always release from the is branch and not from master

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fast forward release branch to selected commit, always release from the release branch and not from master
```

- git fetch upstream
- git merge --ff-only upstream/master
 - Create tag with git 
- export RELEASE_TAG=v0.4.6 # the tag of the release to be cut

> - git tag -s ${RELEASE_TAG} -m "${RELEASE_TAG}"

Reviewer: maybe we should add a note about setting up a GPG key with your github account as a pre-req to be able to sign the tag

https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise/2.16/user/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-gpg-key

Reviewer: ah just read the line below, please ignore me :)

> 	- -s creates a signed tag, user must have GPG added to heir github count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- -s creates a signed tag, you must have a GPG key [added to your GitHub account](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise/2.16/user/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-gpg-key)
```

- git push upstream ${RELEASE_TAG}
 `make release` from repo, this will create the release artifacts in the t/ folder 

>  Release notes https://github.com/kubernetes/release/blob/master/cmd/lease-notes/README.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Release notes https://github.com/kubernetes/release/blob/master/cmd/release-notes/README.md
```

- Export GITHUB_TOKEN

> release-notes --github-org kubernetes-sigs --github-repo uster-api-provider-azure \                

Reviewer: ```suggestion
release-notes --github-org kubernetes-sigs --github-repo cluster-api-provider-azure \                
```

 --start-sha 1cf1ec4a1effd9340fe7370ab45b173a4979dc8f  \
  --end-sha e843409f896981185ca31d6b4a4c939f27d975de 
  (commits range from first commit after previous release to new release commit)
- Manually format and categorize

## Promote image to prod repo	

>  Promote image (how is the image built?)

Reviewer: (how is the image built?) --> https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-cluster-lifecycle-cluster-api-provider-azure#post-cluster-api-provider-azure-push-images

>  - Create a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io to update the image a and tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Create a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io to add the image and tag
```

 - Example PR: https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/1030/files
 - Location of image: https://console.cloud.google.com/gcr/images/s-staging-cluster-api-azure/GLOBAL/cluster-api-azure-controller?rImageListsize=30

## Release in github	
 Create the github release in the UI

>  - Create a draft release in GitHub and associate it with the tag that was st created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Create a draft release in GitHub and associate it with the tag that was created
```

Author: something went wrong with my formatting, there are a bunch of words cut off, will go through it all again

# Release Process

## Change milestone 	
 - Change milestone applier so new changes can be applied to the appropriate release 
      - Open a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra to change this [line](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/25db54eb9d52e08c16b3601726d8f154f8741025/config/prow/plugins.yaml#L344)
- Example PR: https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/16827

> ## Prepare branch, tag and release-notes	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prepare branch, tag and release notes
```

 - Identify a known good commit on the main branch

>  - Fast forward release branch to the selected commit, always release from the release branch and not from master

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fast-forward the release branch to the selected commit. Always release from the release branch and not from master!
```

>    - git fetch upstream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `git fetch upstream`
```

>    - git merge --ff-only upstream/master

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `git merge --ff-only upstream/master`
```

 - Create tag with git 

>    - export RELEASE_TAG=v0.4.6 # the tag of the release to be cut

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `export RELEASE_TAG=v0.4.6` (the tag of the release to be cut)
```

>    - git tag -s ${RELEASE_TAG} -m "${RELEASE_TAG}"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `git tag -s ${RELEASE_TAG} -m "${RELEASE_TAG}"`
```

	 - -s creates a signed tag, you must have a GPG key [added to your GitHub account](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise/2.16/user/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-gpg-key)

>    - git push upstream ${RELEASE_TAG}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `git push upstream ${RELEASE_TAG}`
```

 - `make release` from repo, this will create the release artifacts in the `out/` folder 

>  - Release notes https://github.com/kubernetes/release/blob/master/cmd/release-notes/README.md

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - To install the `release-notes` tool, see https://github.com/kubernetes/release/blob/master/cmd/release-notes/README.md
```

 - Export GITHUB_TOKEN

>  - Run the release-notes tool with the appropriate commits # commits range from first commit after the previous release to new release commit 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Run the `release-notes` tool with the appropriate commits. Commits range from the first commit after the previous release to the new release commit. 
```

  ```
  release-notes --github-org kubernetes-sigs --github-repo cluster-api-provider-azure \                
  --start-sha 1cf1ec4a1effd9340fe7370ab45b173a4979dc8f  \
  --end-sha e843409f896981185ca31d6b4a4c939f27d975de 
  ```
 - Manually format and categorize the release notes

## Promote image to prod repo	
 Promote image

>  - Images are build by the [post push images job](https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-cluster-lifecycle-cluster-api-provider-azure#post-cluster-api-provider-azure-push-images)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Images are built by the [post push images job](https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-cluster-lifecycle-cluster-api-provider-azure#post-cluster-api-provider-azure-push-images)
```

 - Create a PR in https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io to add the image and tag
   - Example PR: https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/1030/files
 - Location of image: https://console.cloud.google.com/gcr/images/s-staging-cluster-api-azure/GLOBAL/cluster-api-azure-controller?rImageListsize=30

> ## Release in github	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Release in GitHub
```

>  Create the github release in the UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Create the GitHub release in the UI
```
